MacLearn
========

A lib (and some sample programs) that implement Machine Learning mechanisms. Currently only the single Perceptron is implemented, but the lib is structured to be easy to add new learning algorithms.

This project was done to practice what I've learned during Machine Learning classes. The code should be easily portable to many platforms, but it has only been tested under Linux Debian 64 bits.

This programs are provided "as is", with no warranty, explicit or implied. Feel free to use it anyway you want.

The library is structured in an Object Oriented fashion. It's still C code (NOT C++!), so it's not truly OO. There's no way to assert that the casting's from one type to another are done correctly by the lib user, so this is based on the "The programmer knows what he's doing" motto. It's always safe to cast a structure "up the tree", never down. This means that a (CSVDataSet *) can be cast as either a (BatchDataSet *) or a (DataSet *), but never as a (ArffDataSet *).

Simply put, 'DataSet' "package" offers mechanisms to read and write data sets. 'Classifier' hold learning algorithms (and a simple form of committee to gather learned algorithms). Finally, 'Inducer' provides mechanisms for inducing new features to create linear separability on data sets. Currently the only inducer implemented is based on an input file of boolean rules. Theses rules are being generated by analyzing the C5.0 output tree (not included in this package).

The 'sample' directory provides some sample usage code.

Simply compile the lib with 'make' and install with 'sudo make install'. Adjust the Makefile in sample dir to point to Intel's MKL, GSL cblas or any other BLAS library you currently use.

In order to compile code using this lib, you must add the flag -fms-extensions on gcc (wasn't tested on other compilers, so check your compiler reference to see which flags you must use). This was a design decision. Using unnamed structures made the code a lot cleaner, possibly by the cost of reducing portability. Sorry about that. :/

If you need any help, or find any bugs, feel free to contact me at ealvarenga(at)gmail.com.
